---
layout: post
title:  "Schedule for Hilary term 2026"
date:   2026-01-16 10:29:00 +0000
categories: meetings
---
We'll meet nearly every week in term time at 15:00 on Wednesdays in the Conference 
Room or Seminar room 1.  Meetings are open to all in the Department and will follow the schedule 
below that will be filled out early in term. If you are willing to lead one of these
sessions please let Andrew Walker know.

The Conference Room in Earth Sciences can be found on O4 (turn right after
you go through the doors to the office corridor). The seminar rooms are next
to reception on the ground floor.

## Meeting schedule

* **21/1/2026, Conference room:** [Code review](https://compearthsci.github.io/meetings/2024/01/18/code_review.html) activity _please bring a laptop and code you are willing to discuss in small groups_ 
* **28/1/2026, Seminar room 1:** [Journal of Open Source Software](https://joss.theoj.org/): scope changes and experiences as authors, reviewers and editors. Led by Andrew Walker
* **4/2/2026, Conference room:** Competencies for digital research. We'll spend some time looking frameworks that allow researchers to assess their digital competencies and development needs with time to explore the [Jisc Discovery Tool](https://skills.it.ox.ac.uk/researcher-digital-skills-health-check) which is linked to the Vitae Researcher Development Framework, and the [DIRECT Framework](https://directframework.com/) which targets digital research roles. There will be time for you to use these tools, but for that you will need to bring a laptop. Discussion 
* **11/2/2026, Seminar room 1:** Test driven development in theory and practice. Led by Auggie Marignier..
* **18/2/2026, Conference room:** Websites, what to include and how to host them. Discussion 
* **25/2/2026, Seminar room 1:** Automatic creation of documentation on the web with ReadTheDocs. Led by Andrew Walker
* **4/3/2026, Conference room:** Templates for website creation. Led by Auggie Marignier 
* **11/3/2026, Seminar room 1:** A brief overview of SQL. Led by Andrew Walker
